{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11900\viewh14740\viewkind1
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Voice:
\b0  Wake up\'85\
\

\b Voice:
\b0  Wake up\'85\
\

\b Roin:
\b0  Zeed, how can you be sleeping at a time like this? Haven't you heard the news?\
\

\b Zeed:
\b0  No, but then I was 
\i sleeping
\i0  after all.\
\

\b Roin:
\b0  Oh, right. Hehe\'85 well the most amazing thing happened last night, a shooting star fell from the sky!\
\

\b Zeed:
\b0  A shooting star?\
\

\b Roin:
\b0  Yeah, and you know the old legend. If you wish upon a shooting star your wish will come true!\
\
So everyone in town is setting off to find it.\
\

\b Zeed:
\b0  Wow, just imagine having your very own wish come true\'85\
\
Where did it land?\
\

\b Roin:
\b0  Somewhere beyond the Starspine Mountains. Probably near Ever Lake.\
\

\b Zeed:
\b0  Ever Lake? But, that's miles away!\
\
It's not only beyond the Starspine Mountains, it's past the Caves of Calamity.\
\

\b Roin:
\b0  Yeah.\
\

\b Zeed:
\b0  Not to mention the Swamp of Deadly Dead Things.\
\

\b Roin:
\b0  That too.\
\

\b Zeed:
\b0  Or the Desert of Dragons, the Forest of Fairies and the Village of Angry Farmers With Beautiful Daughters.\
\

\b Roin:
\b0  Wait, what?\
\

\b Zeed:
\b0  Ok, I made that last one up, but still, it's a very long way away!\
\

\b Roin:
\b0  Yeah, too bad huh?\
\
It would've been cool to have our very own wish granted. But what chance do we have of finding the star against everyone else?\
\

\b Zeed:
\b0  \'85\
\
Well, I suppose we'd have the same chance as everyone else.\
\

\b Roin:
\b0  Huh?\
\

\b Zeed:
\b0  Come on, Lets grab some things and get going. If we leave now the others won't have had much of a head start.\
\

\b Roin:
\b0  But\'85 it's such a long way to travel, and it'd be dangerous\'85\
\

\b Zeed:
\b0  Sure it's a long way, and sure it's dangerous, but that's what adventure is all about.\
\
Exploring the wilderness, braving the unknown and risking your life for fame and glory!\
\
What do you say Roin, you wanna become an explorer with me?\
\

\b Roin:
\b0  Ye\'85 yeah! Lets go find that shooting star!}