{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9140\viewh13360\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qj\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qc\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 A Note to the Player...\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qj\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
Making Quest of Magic took ages. I mean, it took absolutely 
\i ages
\i0 . It shouldn't have, but it did. Yet now it's finished. Done. Complete. Released and playable by all the world. I set out to achieve a goal, and despite all the complications and difficulties that arose in the attempt (which were numerous) I 
\i did
\i0  achieve the goal. I did what I set out to do: Make a topdown RPG with a handful of levels, a decent assortment of enemies, 3 selectable player races, a dozen or so weapons and armors and a few rare bonus items.\
\
I call Quest of Magic a simple game, as would most, but that term is branded from the player's point of view. From a 
\i developer's
\i0  point of view the game could be described as simple, plain, low rate, or even crap. But it could also be described as fair, great, terrific, or even stupendous! Because you see, whereas the player's point of view is based on the enjoyment they get from the game, the developer's point of view is based on the development skills they have themselves. To a programmer employed by a commercial company producing games for a living, I'm sure projects like Quest of Magic are considered a morning exercise before work. But to someone who has a great idea for an RPG but hardly any knowledge of programming, music composition or art, Quest of Magic could be looked upon as a pretty decent achievement.\
\
So what would I rate Quest of Magic? Well, all the months I've spent drawing the graphics, composing the music, writing the story, programming engines, re-programming engines as they became outdated, designing the game world, calibrating stats and balancing the game's difficulty all come together at the time of writing to give Quest of Magic a rating of An Outstanding Achievement. As my first grid based RPG I'm immensely pleased with it.\
\
\
\
What I'd like to say to you
\i ,
\i0  the player, is that if you've got a great idea or a story for a game, or even just the hunger to 
\i be
\i0  a game designer, don't waste time pondering whether or not you can pull it off. Of 
\i course
\i0  you can pull it off! Anyone can do it, you just have to... well... do it!\
\
Many aspiring game designers get as far as looking for an engine that'll handle all the work involved in game design and pretty much make a game 
\i for
\i0  them at the click of a few buttons, but they usually all give up when they can't find such a thing. If you 
\i really
\i0  want your game to be a reality, just sit down at your computer and learn how to program. I promise you it's not that hard, and like me you'll probably find that learning the programming language is where most of the enjoyment in game design comes from.\
\
The world needs more indie games, so hurry up and make your game a reality. 
\i Hurry I say!
\i0  And don't forget to send me a download link when you finish it.\
\
\
Best of luck to all you aspiring developers,\
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qj\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf0 	Silverwind\
}