{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red224\green231\blue239;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16640\viewh14280\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs22 \cf0 \cb2 <p align="center"><font size='30'><font color="#FF0000"><b>OBEOR ISLANDS</b></font></font></p>\
\
<font color="#0000FF"><b>Deravon Grasslands -</b></font> These tranquil lands were the start of a generation for Deravon. The people of Deravon's past used it's fertile soil for agriculture, and harvested it's rich woodland areas for settlements. Over time, some settlements expanded, and others fell into ruin, but to this day, the Deravon Grasslands remain the most preserved part of Dervavon.\
\
<font color="#0000FF"><b>Agro Mountains -</b></font>  The coldest of all the islands, the Agro Mountains have been subjected to thick snowfall for twenty years. The harsh winds combined with the powerful ocean currents have molded this island into mountain ranges of various sizes. The conditions and climate of this area have steadily declined, and now it remains mostly uninhabited by any species, expect the hardy dwarves, who enjoy this environment.\
\
<font color="#0000FF"><b>Windy Isles -</b></font>  This island was largely considered a myth until one day, the waters began to stir. A few short days later, an island rose. The people of Deravon named it "The Windy Isles" because everything around the island was calm, but once you arrived on the ground of the island, a strong wind begins to blow. This island has varied terrain and is free of any human civilization whatsoever. Many parts of this mysterious island still remain unexplored, and undocumented species may have developed as well.\
\
<p align="center"><font size='30'><font color="#FF0000"><b>KHYANI</b></font></font></p>\
\
\
<font color="#0000FF"><b>Famine Jungle -</b></font>  Thick and dense foliage grows in this part of Khyani, due to ideal soil and weather conditions. Light only reaches some areas of this jungle, and so the rest are left in darkness. This cloak of solitude allows for new types of life to evolve and grow, including the mysterious Zulu Beasts. The region is inhabited by various tribes of humans, who have adapted to live in this unique environment.\
\
<font color="#0000FF"><b>Taris Cliffs -</b></font>  Also known as the heart of Khyani, this region has been torn apart by massive earthquakes and constant seismic disruptions. As a result, many sub-terranian passageways and caverns have developed over time. The brown rocks that make up the Taris Cliffs are rich with deposits of Ore, and many mining camps have been set up to harvest this valuable element. The Taris Cliffs are inhabited by the Zogor, a human-lion hybrid species.\
\
<font color="#0000FF"><b>Azard Plains -</b></font>  The Azard Plains are the most dangerous part of Deravon. Boiling hot magma flows from the Ashirre Volcano in the center of Azard, creating deadly rivers, charring the world a dark black, and destroying anything that gets in it's way. Other smaller volcanoes have risen due to the unstable and ever shifting plates nearby, creating a choking black dust, which makes most areas in this region uninhabitable and extremely dangerous. Some species prefer this environment, and many undiscovered creatures live here as well.\
\
<p align="center"><font size='30'><font color="#FF0000"><b>THE RISELANDS</b></font></font></p>\
\
<font color="#0000FF"><b>Vell Desert -</b></font>  This region is the driest in Deravon. It only rains here once a year, and as such, the desert is extremely dry. Many dunes have formed as the wind currents from the Agro Mountains shift and blow over. This region warms the wind and allows for the perfect climate in the above areas. Some humans enjoy this climate and many settled here as well. Fishing ports formed and this area became the central point for Deravon's economy. When traveling across the open desert, beware of the sand worms and oasis mirages.\
\
<font color="#0000FF"><b>Panar Marsh -</b></font>  Home to many mages and mystics, this marsh is shrouded in a wet fog. These conditions are perfect for spell casting, so many dark mages practice and live here. Quicksand is abundant in many areas of this Marsh. Lizard People prefer this environment, and thrive in the wetter parts of the swamp. They have created many habitats, but over time many were destroyed as new species evolved. Beware the sudden loss in visibility when exploring the marsh.\
\
<font color="#0000FF"><b>Cerdrid Woods -</b></font>  This region of the Riselands is home to the elven people. Many crystal caves and shrines have been formed in this region, and are protected by elven guards. These woods are considered magical to the elven people of Deravon, due to the purple and blue colors and humming sounds that the crystals in the caves emit. Because of the large quantity of this crystal, the whole wood is colored with purples and blues as well. Troubled spirits of the dead tend to gather here as the calm of the woodland is irresistible to them.}