{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf330
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9140\viewh15440\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\i\fs24 \cf0 Quests
\i0 \
\

\b Land - 
\b0 5					
\b Conversational:
\b0  4
\b 	
\b0 Dealing with Hidden Treasure\

\b Water -
\b0  3 (Need a Ship)		
\b PortMaster:
\b0  3
\b 		
\b0 Dealing with Menacing Pirates\

\b Multi -
\b0  2 (Need a Ship)		
\b Mayor: 
\b0 3
\b 			
\b0 Dealing with Dalek the Wizard\
\
***\
\

\b Conversational Quests:
\b0  Appear at any time and can be accepted at any time.\

\b Mayor Quests: 
\b0 Ordered - 
\i "Protecting the Bridge", "Hunting A Beast", "The Wizards Amulet"\

\i0\b PortMaster Quests: 
\b0 Ordered - 
\i "Re-Taking Pirate Cove", "Lifting the Curse of Claw Rock", "The Ship That Never Sails"\
\
***
\i0\b \

\b0 \

\b N/A. Tutorial (Mandatory)
\b0 \
\
Enter "The Tutorial Masters" house and complete the tasks he assigns to you.\
\
\ul Log Entries and Completion List\ulnone \
\
- Go to Tutorial Masters House\
- Take The Tutorials (Navigation, Interaction, Combat, Menus)\
- Get Starter Items from Chest\
\

\b A.
\b0  The Tutorial Master's house is just up to the top of town. Head over, and hear what he has to say.\

\b B.
\b0  You've completed all the tutorials! Open the chest in the corner of the room and get your items - your ready to go!\
\

\b 1. Protecting The Bridge (Land Quest) (Mayors Quest)\
\

\b0 Dalek the Grumpy wizard has sent his minions to guard a vital bridge on the southern island in Obeor. Stop them!\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Log Entries and Completion List\
\
\ulnone - Go to Western bridge\
- Kill 2 skeletons before they reach the bridge\
- Kill 4 skeletons before they reach the bridge\
- Return to town\
\

\b A.
\b0  Dalek the evil wizard has sent his skeleton army to destroy a vital bridge in Obeor. Get over there and stop them, but if they cross the bridge, its too late!\

\b B.
\b0  You've killed 2 skeletons, but the final wave is yet to come. Hold that bridge!\

\b C.
\b0  You've killed the final skeletons and saved the bridge! Great job, return to town for your reward.\

\b \
2. Re-Taking Pirate Cove (Water Quest) (PortMasters Quest)
\b0 \
\
A rocky cove near the northwest part of Obeor has been taken over by pirates! Help re-claim this land.\
\
\ul Log Entries and Completion List\
\
\ulnone - Sail from port to northwest cove\
- Rescue Allied Shipman 1 (Defeat Pirate Ship)\
- Rescue Allied Shipman 2 (Defeat Pirate Ship)\
- Defeat Captains and Henchman Ships\
- Collect Treasure and return to port\
\

\b A. 
\b0 You've been commissioned to retake "Pirate Cove", a strategic position in Obeor. Sail over there and see what's going on.\

\b B.
\b0  The Pirates seem to be engaged in battle with Friendly Forces! Rescue them!\

\b C.
\b0  You have rescued the two ships in distress and they have banded with you to help take down the Captain and his ships. Finish them off!\

\b D. 
\b0 You have successfully "removed" the pirates and re-taken the cove. Now go get yourself some of that treasure and return to port!\
\

\b 3. Bounty of the Undercroft (Land Quest) (Conversational Quest)
\b0 \
\
Many years ago, a group of pirates buried their treasure deep in a cave. Its up to you to recover this loot!\
\
\ul Log Entries and Completion List\
\
\ulnone - Dungeon Quest: Fight your way to the end and get the treasure!\
\

\b A.
\b0  The Pirates have left their loot at the farthest reaches of this cave. Go and get it!\

\b B. 
\b0 You have defeated the monsters and recovered the treasure, great job!\ul \
\ulnone \

\b 4. The Wizards Amulet (Land Quest) (Mayors Quest) (Boss)
\b0 \
\
Dalek the wizard is at it again: he has stolen a powerful amulet from the town. Get it back!\
\
\ul Log Entries and Completion List\
\
\ulnone - Enter the tower\
- Defeat the minions Dalek has summoned to guard his tower\
- Explore the tower\
- Pull the candleholder and  open the secret wall to Dalek's chamber\
- Defeat Dalek and get the amulet\
- Return to town\ul \
\

\b \ulnone A.
\b0  Dalek the wizard has taken the towns prized amulet. His tower is in the southwestern part of Obeor. Time to get that amulet back!\

\b B.
\b0  It seems Dalek's Chamber is hidden. You should look around for any secret triggers.\

\b C
\b0 . The Door is open, and Dalek surely hides inside. Teach that grump a final lesson!\

\b D.
\b0  Dalek has been bested and you have retrieved his amulet. Return it to town and reap your reward.\
\

\b 5. Hunting A Beast (Land Quest) (Mayors Quest)\
\

\b0 Dalek has created a terrible beast, and it has been terrorizing many townsfolk in the green fields. Put an end to it!
\b \
\

\b0 \ul Log Entries and Completion List\
\
\ulnone - Follow the goblin through the southern island\
- Wait until he turns around, and attack\
- A total of 5 attacks will kill it\
- Return to town\
\

\b A. 
\b0 Dalek has summoned an evil dragon, and it is terrorizing townsfolk near the port town. FInd this creature and kill it.\

\b B. 
\b0 Apparently the dragon has a magical barrier on it. Wait until it turns around and attack it.\

\b C. 
\b0 You have defeated the monster and saved the town. Return to the mayor for your reward.\
\

\b 6. Lifting The Curse of Claw Rock (Water Quest) (PortMasters Quest)
\b0 \
\
Every ship that sails near the fabled "Claw Rock" disappears and is never heard from again. Its up to you to stop this.\
\
\ul Log Entries and Completion List\
\
\ulnone - Sail to the inside of claw rock\
- Follow the visible part of "Claw Rock Caves"\
- Collect the compass from the lost ship\
- Let it guide you through the fog to the second visible part\
- Follow the visible part to the inner caves\
- Defeat the pirates in the cave\
- Collect the "Magnetic Stone"\
- Return to port\
\

\b A.
\b0  Ships have been disappearing near claw rock. Head over there and find out what's going on.\

\b B.
\b0  A Lost Ship? You should board it and look for something to get you through the fog.\

\b C.
\b0  This compass should help you. Maybe now you can find out what's going on in this cave.\

\b D. 
\b0 Pirates? Looks like they are using a powerful magnetic stone to break compasses, lure hips in, and pillage them! Get that stone back.\

\b E.
\b0  You have saved many future ships from Claw Rock, and done the town a great favor. Return to port for your reward! \
\

\b 7. An Blacksmiths Dilemma (Land Quest) (Conversational Quest)
\b0 \
\
A blacksmith in the south part of town needs a special ore, only retrievable from a specific cave. Fetch it for him!\
\
\ul Log Entries and Completion List\
\
\ulnone - Fetch Quest: Go to the cave on the northern island and gather 10 crystal mineral chunks\
- Return to the blacksmith\
\

\b A. 
\b0 Ragor the Blacksmith needs a special "Crystal Ore" from a cave on the northern part of the island to finish a sword. Help the guy out!\

\b B.
\b0  You have collected the ore, return to Ragor for your reward!\

\b C.
\b0  Ragor has given you a crystal sword for your trouble, and will pay you __ Gold for any additional ore you bring him, from now on.\
\

\b 8. The Perfect Cure (Land and Water Quest) (Conversational Quest)
\b0 \
\
People in the town are getting sick, and need your help collecting ingredients for a cure. The reward is big, so go for it!\
\
\ul Log Entries and Completion List\
\
\ulnone - Collect 12 Ingredients to make the cure\ul \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\i \cf0 \ulnone Northern Island Ingredients: 
\i0 \
\
2 Green Grass (Outdoors) \
2 Purple Grass (Undercroft Cave)\
\

\i Southern Island Ingredients: 
\i0 \
\
3 Fungus Tops (Outdoors)\
1 Yellow Powder (Wizard Tower)\
1 Rocky Gravel (Outdoors)\
\

\i Water Ingredients: 
\i0 \
\
2 Red Grass (Claw Cave)\
1 Blue Grass (Outdoors)\
\
- Bring to Doctor\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 A. 
\b0 The townsfolk are getting sick, and the doctor has asked you to collect 12 ingredients, that will help create an antidote. Follow the list and save the town!\

\b B.
\b0  You have collected the last of the ingredients and the antidote can be made. Return to the doctor!\

\b C. 
\b0 The antidote has been created and the town is saved. Congratulations!\ul \
\ulnone \

\b 9. Hunting For Treasure (Land and Water Quest) (Conversational Quest)
\b0 \
\
It is said that the pirates buried a chest full of gold somewhere in Obeor. Can you find it?\
\
\ul Log Entries and Completion List\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\i \cf0 \ulnone Finding The Map
\i0 \
\
- Ask the Mayor about the legendary "Treasure of Obeor"\
- Follow his instruction to the PortMaster\
- Ask the Portmaster about the treasure\
- The Map is located near one of the rocks around Obeor\
- Sail to the rock that looks like an arrow (Guide) and at the tip find the map\
\

\i The Map Instructions\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\i0 \cf0 - Follow the instructions
\i \
\

\i0 "Our bounty sits from prying eyes, where only water can disguise. Three riddles hide the gold we got, unfold them all to find the spot!"
\i \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qc\pardirnatural
\cf0 1: Number  1
\i0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
"It all began 'Two' long ago, where many thought we hid the dough. There is 'One' place the next clue hides, the southern island's where it resides."\
\
- The central part of the southern island has a tree formation shaped like the number one\
- Look near the top of the number to find the next clue\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qc\pardirnatural

\i \cf0 2: Boot\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\i0 \cf0 "A walled in cove where many stood before they took the plunge, they dropped their 'boots' and took a dive, where northeastern waters run."\
\
- The Northern Island's southeastern cove has a boot shaped tree formation\
- The tip of this boot is where the next clue is hidden\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qc\pardirnatural

\i \cf0 3: Hand Pointing Down in Water\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\i0 \cf0 "I see you've found the final clue, the hardest yet to come. Quite simple where the treasure lies - follow finger, wrist, and thumb."\
\
- Get the treasure to where the hand points in the water\
- The top of the bottom most rock is where the treasure is buried\
\

\b A. 
\b0 The Mayor says that the PortMaster may know more about the treasure. You should go talk to him.
\b \
B. 
\b0 The PortMaster says that he's heard rumors about the treasure map being near a "Guiding" rock in the water. I wonder what he means by that?
\b \
C. 
\b0 You've found the map, and with it, the first clue. You should uncover these clues and follow them to find the treasure!\

\b D.
\b0  You've found the second clue! Only two more to go!\

\b E.
\b0  You've found the second clue! Only one more to go!\

\b F. 
\b0 After long, hard work, you've found the pirates treasure! Great job!\
\

\b 10. The Ship That Never Sails (Water Quest) (PortMasters Quest) (Boss)
\b0 \
\
A dark ship has mysteriously appeared at port, and no one knows anything about it!  Unravel the mysteries that this boat is hiding.\
\
\ul Log Entries and Completion List\
\
\ulnone - Enter the Ship\
- Find the key to the lower decks\
- Open the hatch and go down\
- The hatch closes behind you and see that the ship has been sailed out to sea\
- The pirates have captured you so you cant do any more meddling to their plans\
- Fight the pirates and take the cell key\
- Open the hatch and go up\
- Fight and defeat the Masked Pirate\
- Sail the ship back to town, as you get off it disappears in the mist\
- Talk to the PortMaster for your reward\
\

\b A.
\b0 The PortMaster has requested that you explore this dark ship and find out what its doing at port.\

\b B.
\b0  The Ship's lower deck is locked - time to look for a key.\

\b C. 
\b0 The hatch closed behind you and you felt the whole ship move! You may be going out to sea!\

\b D.
\b0  The Pirates have captured you, they are sick of you meddling in their business. Defeat the guard and fight your way up to the helm!\

\b E. 
\b0 You've got the key, so head topside and take care of the Captain!\

\b F. 
\b0 You've bested the Pirate Captain and saved yourself from certain doom. I'm sure there's a reward in it from the PortMaster too.\

\b G.
\b0  You've stopped these troublesome pirates once and for all. Great job!\
}