{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf250
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9120\viewh9860\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 The Hero\

\b0 	The character controlled by the player. The entire story is seen from the\
	viewpoint of this character.\
\

\b Siren\

\b0 	The Hero's mentor. Head of the temple to Shont. As the story progresses he is\
	revealed to be a sage on The Ancients and gradually teaches The Hero their\
	language.\

\b \
\'c1\

\b0 	A fusion sage who teaches The Hero magical spells for a fee.\
\

\b The Shadow Knights\

\b0 	A group of elite mercenaries who hire themselves out to rebel forces. They're\
	considered cold-blooded assassins in the central realm and face off with The\
	Hero on multiple occasions.\
\

\b 	\'c9n\

\b0 		A coolheaded swordsman with a terrible weight on his shoulders. As a\
		boy he was enrolled in the local guard force and one night fell asleep on\
		watch duty, resulting in an invading army passing the village's defences\
		unnoticed and slaughtering the inhabitants. Haunted by guilt he looked\
		for something to blame and was easily brainwashed by Hac into believing\
		that Realm Capital was unjust and power hungry (and had sent the\
		invading army). He formed the Shadow Knights with Gracs and Tilin as a\
		means to oppose RC and work off his guilt. As the story progresses he\
		learns that Hac was behind the assault himself and eventually swaps\
		sides to fight for the good guys.\
\

\b 	Gracs\

\b0 		A simple minded giant-hammer wielding warrior. As the story progresses\
		he's forced to question his motives and eventually sides with the good\
		guys.\
\

\b 	L\'e9a\

\b0 		An arrogant rogue and the only female member of the Shadow Knights.\
		Orphaned since infancy she was taken in by the head of the rogues' guild\
		at Porthr\'fagen and raised as a thief. Quickly becoming the best in the guild\
		she progressed to more dangerous tasks and eventually joined the\
		Shadow Knights after collaborating with them over an assignment\
		(naturally this caused her to fall out of favour with the rogues' guild).\
\

\b 	Tilin\

\b0 		A seer and the tactician of the Shadow Knights.\
\

\b Hac\

\b0 	The main villain of the game. He seeks control over the entire realm and\
	manipulates people as a means to gain it. He feeds \'c9n's guilt and brainwashes\
	him against Realm Capital blaming them for the slaughter of his village. (which\
	as the story progresses is revealed to have been Hac's own doing in an effort\
	to spark conflict) Similarly he convinces L\'e9a that her parents wouldn't have\
	died in poverty if RC weren't so prejudice against the border regions.\
\

\b The Fairy Folk\

\b0 	Ancient inhabitants of the forest who resent humans for chopping so much of\
	it down. They live seemingly forever and posses immensely powerful magic,\
	but they have very little understanding of human ways and thinking.\
\

\b 	Th\'edn\

\b0 		The fairy king. In the second part of the story he launches an assault\
		on the human realms in an effort to take back the land once under fairy\
		rule. He is ultimately unsuccessful.\
\

\b 	Syrn\

\b0 		The fairy champion. He spearheads the attacks on the human settlements\
		and faces off with The Hero.\
\

\b 	Z\'e9d\

\b0 		A sylphed in the fairy army who faces off with The Hero.\
\

\b The Summoned One\

\b0 	An incredibly powerful swordsman bound to earth by magic until defeated in\
	combat. He longs to break free from the wretched curse of immortality and gets\
	his wish when he faces off with The Hero.\
\

\b Kenidoth\

\b0 	A mysterious swordsman. What could his purpose be?\
\

\b Wulveron\

\b0 	A mysterious swordsman. What could his purpose be?}