{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11900\viewh14740\viewkind1
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qr\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 16/Feb/10\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qc\pardirnatural
\cf0 \

\b\fs28 Roguesoft RPG Engine\

\b0\fs24 \
Original Release: 20/Feb/10\
\
Created by Roguesoft\
http://www.roguesoft.com\
\
Created with Mac GameMaker\
http://alstaffieri.com/gamemaker.html\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qj\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qj\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Introduction
\b0 \
\
First off, thank you for downloading the Roguesoft RPG Engine. I invested a lot of time and effort into making it in order to reduce the amount of time and effort it will take you to make games with it. I hope you enjoy it!\
\
Second off, this readme is 
\i extremely
\i0  helpful. It's not one of those useless, complicated, jargon filled readmes that don't explain anything or help you in any way. This readme provides easy as pie, step by step instructions on how to make an RPG  from scratch, and every aspect of the process is explained in the simplest manner possible.\
\
Finally, the goal of this readme is to have you developing an amazing RPG right away, so we'll waste no time getting started. 
\i Read on!
\i0 \
\
\

\b 1 What you should already know\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qj\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
In order to follow my instructions you'll need to know how to edit the script properties of buttons and cards. If you already know how to do that you can skip ahead to section 2, if not take a look at the following screenshot:\
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\qj\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 2 Finding your way around the engine
\b0 \
\
Card 248 is the title card. That's the card with the New Game, Load Game and Quit buttons. Every time you load the title card the RESET command kicks in and every variable in the game gets reset to its default value ("0" for integers and "" for strings).}